Adding documentation for _list APIs (#8594)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _api-reference/list/list-indices.md

---
layout: default

> title: List Indices 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: List indices 
```

parent: List API
nav_order: 25
has_children: false
---

> # List Indices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# List indices
```

**Introduced 2.18**
{: .label .label-purple }

> The List Indices operation provides the following information related to indexes in a paginated format: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The list indices operation provides the following index information in a paginated format: 
```

> - The amount of disk space the index is using. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The amount of disk space used by the index. 
```

> - The number of shards the index contains. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The number of shards contained in the index. 
```

- The index's health status.

## Path and HTTP methods

```json
GET _list/indices
GET _list/indices/<index>
```

## Query parameters

Parameter | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
`bytes` | Byte size | Specifies the units for the byte size, for example, `7kb` or `6gb`. For more information, see [Supported units]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/units/).
`health` | String | Limits indexes based on their health status. Supported values are `green`, `yellow`, and `red`.
`include_unloaded_segments` | Boolean | Whether to include information from segments not loaded into memory. Default is `false`.

> `cluster_manager_timeout` | Time | The amount of time to wait for a connection to the cluster manager node. Default is 30 seconds.

Reviewer: "30 seconds" => `30s`?

> `cluster_manager_timeout` | Time | The amount of time to wait for a connection to the cluster manager node. Default is 30 seconds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`cluster_manager_timeout` | Time | The amount of time to wait for a connection to the cluster manager node. Default is `30s`.
```

`pri` | Boolean | Whether to return information only from the primary shards. Default is `false`.

> `time` | Time | Specifies the units for time, for example, `5d` or `7h`. For more information, see [Supported units]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/units/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`time` | Time | Specifies the time units, for example, `5d` or `7h`. For more information, see [Supported units]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/units/).
```

`expand_wildcards` | Enum | Expands wildcard expressions to concrete indexes. Combine multiple values with commas. Supported values are `all`, `open`, `closed`, `hidden`, and `none`. Default is `open`.

> `next_token` | String | Fetches the next page of indexes. When `null` provides the first page of indexes. Default is `null`. 

Reviewer: "Fetches the next page of indexes when `null` provides the first page of indexes"?

> `next_token` | String | Fetches the next page of indexes. When `null` provides the first page of indexes. Default is `null`. 

Reviewer 2: Should be this @natebower 

```suggestion
`next_token` | String | Fetches the next page of indexes. When `null`, only provides the first page of indexes. Default is `null`. 
```

> `size` | Integer | The maximum number of indexes to be displayed on a single page. The number of indexes on a single page of the response is not always equal to the specified `size`. Default is `500`. Maximum value is `5000`.

Reviewer 3: Is there a minimum limit?

Author: Added minimum limits.

> `size` | Integer | The maximum number of indexes to be displayed a single page. The number of indexes on a single page in the response is not always equal to specified `size`. Default is `500`. Maximum value is `5000`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`size` | Integer | The maximum number of indexes to be displayed on a single page. The number of indexes on a single page of the response is not always equal to the specified `size`. Default is `500`. Maximum value is `5000`.
```

> `sort` | String | The order the indexes are displayed. If `desc`, the most recently created indexes are displayed first. Ff `asc`, the oldest indexes are displayed first. Default is `asc`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`sort` | String | The order in which the indexes are displayed. If `desc`, then the most recently created indexes are displayed first. If `asc`, then the oldest indexes are displayed first. Default is `asc`.
```

> ## Example requests

Reviewer 2: @sumitasr: Happy to include the example if your team produces one. We can also add additional examples in a future PR.

> ## Example requests

Author: @Naarcha-AWS I'm adding the examples in the current PR itself, hope that's okay? Sorry for last minute additions. I'll be revising the PR addressing all the comments posted by @sumitasr.

> ## Example requests

Author: @sumitasr Since we are supporting requests and responses in different paragraphs, I have added instructions on passing the next_token. I think that should be sufficient for users to get hold of new APIs. Please check again.

`next_token` | String | Fetches the next page of indexes. When `null`, only provides the first page of indexes. Default is `null`. 
`size` | Integer | The maximum number of indexes to be displayed on a single page. The number of indexes on a single page of the response is not always equal to the specified `size`. Default is `500`. Minimum is `1` and maximum value is `5000`.
`sort` | String | The order in which the indexes are displayed. If `desc`, then the most recently created indexes are displayed first. If `asc`, then the oldest indexes are displayed first. Default is `asc`.

## Example requests

To get information for all the indexes, use the following query and keep specifying the `next_token` as received from response until its `null`:

```json
GET _list/indices/<index>?v&next_token=token
```

To limit the information to a specific index, add the index name after your query, as shown in the following example:

```json
GET _list/indices/<index>?v
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> If you want to get information for more than one index, separate the indexes with commas, as shown in the following example and keep using the `next_token` as received from response until its `null`:

Reviewer 2: @gargharsh3134: What do you mean by "keep using the `next_token` as received by the response until its `null`? In my testing `next_token` wasn't required.

Reviewer 2: Lets add it as a note under the example. I'll go ahead and update it and ping you once I'm done.
